OSDOCS-10396:ANP audit logging (#75310)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-banp-audit-logging-concept.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/openshift_network_security/AdminNetworkPolicy/logging-anp-policy.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-banp-audit-logging-concept_{context}"]
= BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy audit logging

> Audit logging is enabled in the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` CR by annotating an ANP policy with the `k8s.ovn.org/acl-logging` key such as in the following example:

Reviewer: Should it be by annotating BANP policy here instead of ANP.

Author: updated

.Example of annotation for `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` CR
[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  annotations:
    k8s.ovn.org/acl-logging: '{ "deny": "alert", "allow": "alert"}'
  name: default
spec:
  subject:
    namespaces:
      matchLabels:
          tenant: workloads # Selects all workload pods in the cluster.
  ingress:

>   - name: "default-allow-ns" # This rule allows all ingress from dns tenant to all workloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - name: "default-allow-dns" # This rule allows ingress from dns tenant to all workloads.
```

    action: "Allow"
    from:
    - namespaces:
          matchLabels:
            tenant: dns

>   - name: "default-deny-ns" # This rule denies all other ingress to workloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - name: "default-deny-ns" # This rule denies ingress from all pods to workloads
```

    action: "Deny"
    from:
    - namespaces: {}
  egress:

>   - name: "default-deny-ns" # This rule denies all other egress not defined by other ANP rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - name: "default-deny-ns" # This rule denies all egress from workloads (will be hit when no ANP/NP matches)

    action: "Deny"
    to:
    - namespaces: {}
----
====

In the example, an event in which any of the namespaces with the label `tenant: dns` accesses the namespaces with the label `tenant: workloads`, a log is generated.

The following is a direction index for the examples log entries that follow:

[cols=".^4,.^6a",options="header"]
|====
|Direction|Rule

|Ingress

> |Rule0:: Allow from tenant `workloads` to tenant `dns`; Ingress0: `Allow`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Rule0:: Allow from tenant `dns` to tenant `workloads`; Ingress0: `Allow`
```

> Rule1:: Deny to tenant `workloads` from all other tenants; Ingress1: `Deny`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rule1:: Deny to tenant `workloads` from all pods; Ingress1: `Deny`
```

|Egress

> |Rule0:: Deny to all other tenants; Rule0: `Deny`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Rule0:: Deny to all pods; Rule0: `Deny`
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/openshift_network_security/AdminNetworkPolicy/logging-anp-policy.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-banp-audit-logging-concept_{context}"]
= BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy audit logging

> Audit logging is enabled per `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` CR by annotating an ANP policy with the `k8s.ovn.org/acl-logging` key such as in the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Audit logging is enabled per `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` CR by annotating an BANP policy with the `k8s.ovn.org/acl-logging` key such as in the following example:
```
also there is only 1 BANP so per BANP is ok but not needed :D

.Example of annotation for `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` CR
[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  annotations:
    k8s.ovn.org/acl-logging: '{ "deny": "alert", "allow": "alert"}'
  name: default
spec:
  subject:
    namespaces:
      matchLabels:
          kubernetes.io/metadata.name: tenant
  ingress:
  - name: "default-allow-ns"
    action: "Allow"
    from:
    - namespaces:
          matchLabels:

>             kubernetes.io/metadata.name: tenant_1

Reviewer: Need to name this tenant-1 as underscore is not allowed in project name

  - name: "default-deny-ns"
    action: "Deny"
    from:
    - namespaces:
          matchLabels:

>             kubernetes.io/metadata.name: tenant_2

Reviewer: Same as above

----
====

> In the example, an event in which the `tenant: blue` is allowed ingress to the `tenant: red` namespace a log is generated.

Reviewer 2: could you give a small preface like "tenant:blue" is set of all namespaces with the label "tenant:blue" ? same for red
so its about defining what we meant by tenant here as a set of colored namespaces, so blue tenant is a set of namespaces with the label tenant:blue and red tenant is the set of namespaces with the label "red"

> In the example, an event in which all of the namespaces with the label `tenant: blue` are allowed ingress to all of the namespaces with the label `tenant: red`, a log is generated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example, an event in which any of the namespaces with the label `tenant: blue` is allowed ingress to any of the namespaces with the label `tenant: red`, a log is generated.
```

BTW @asood-rh : I just noticed that the BANP+ANP samples provided here logically makes no sense. Making the BANP be the default deny {} to {} sounds better to me, what are your thoughts? there is no way ppl use the singleton BANP for a specific tenant case right? Can you please help with this part? Because otherwise, the ANP -> BANP transition here doesn't work together.

The other alternative is to give a preface to users that this is just to illustrate a logging example and functionally having "allow to blue" here makes no sense since nothing is actually blocking the "blue" traffic below that rule.

I might be overthinking this so feel free to correct me

> In the example, an event in which the `tenant 2` namespace was denied ingress to the `tenant` namespace a log is generated.

Reviewer: a deny log with alert level is generated

> .Example ACL deny log entry for an `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` CR

Reviewer: allow log entry

[source,text]
----
2024-05-28T20:39:07.131Z|00004|acl_log(ovn_pinctrl0)|INFO|name="BANP:default:Ingress:0", verdict=allow, severity=alert, direction=to-lport: tcp,vlan_tci=0x0000,dl_src=0a:58:0a:83:00:01,dl_dst=0a:58:0a:83:00:0e,nw_src=10.128.2.18,nw_dst=10.131.0.14,nw_tos=0,nw_ecn=0,nw_ttl=62,nw_frag=no,tp_src=42984,tp_dst=8080,tcp_flags=syn
2024-05-28T20:42:06.270Z|00011|acl_log(ovn_pinctrl0)|INFO|name="BANP:default:Ingress:1", verdict=drop, severity=alert, direction=to-lport: tcp,vlan_tci=0x0000,dl_src=0a:58:0a:83:00:10,dl_dst=0a:58:0a:83:00:0e,nw_src=10.131.0.16,nw_dst=10.131.0.14,nw_tos=0,nw_ecn=0,nw_ttl=64,nw_frag=no,tp_src=46866,tp_dst=8080,tcp_flags=syn
----

> The following table describes BANP annotation values:

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: same comment here, where I'm not sure of the value of the table if it only has a single annotation in it. Up to you.
